Due to Ajay,
what is total loss in insurance or vehicle insurance, first of all
we understand this, so friends, if
we say in simple words, if the
cost of repairing the accident vehicle or its repair is
more than the market value, then in that case also the vehicle is
considered a total loss, so friends,
if we spend more money on repair than the market value,
then the insurance company will declare
that vehicle a total loss, so
friends, according to the regulatory norms in India,
if the cost of repairing your vehicle is
more than 75 percent of its ID, then
it is considered a total loss for you and
ID is also the market value of the vehicle
and in any comprehensive policy,
you will find the ID of the vehicle or its market value written in it
and year after year, as the vehicle
is renovated, its ID and its market value decreases,
so suppose your ID is
also Rs 5 lakh and that vehicle meets with an accident, then the
repair cost on it is Rs 4 lakh, which is also Rs 100,000.  If it is
8% then in this case your
option will be considered as total loss and if it gets disabled or
stolen then also it is considered as total loss.
Friends, let's talk about
total loss of the option but
how much will you get, then you will get a claim
equal to its IDV i.e.
you will get an amount equal to its market value. You will
not get so much claim that you
can buy a new car, you will not be able to purchase cars with plane money. So
friends, now
we will talk about how IDV is
ensured, so if you have
purchased a new car and its age is less than six months
then your ex-showroom price will be reduced by
5% and your
IDV will be calculated and if the age of the vehicle is
between 6 months to 1 year then
50% will be added from the ex-showroom and if the age of the vehicle is
between 1 year to 2 years then
its IDV will be calculated by leaving 20%. If the age of the vehicle is between 2
years to 3 years then
30% will be added from the ex-showroom price and
between 3 to 4 years  Forty percent will be
deducted, whereas from the fourth year to the fifth year,
if you own only one car, then
50% will be deducted from the ex-showroom price. Now the
next thing will be discussed as to how the ID is ensured even after 5 years. So
friends, at the time of renewal
of the policy for 5 year old cars,
we
can declare the ID as per the value decided on mutual consent between the owner and the insurer. We can accept the ID
or get it valued by the
car owner or the insurer.
In both the cases, we can adopt any option on mutual consent or by a validator or anyone
else. In
this way, the ID of the car is also deducted even after 5 years.
Friends, to
protect you from this, insurance companies have
introduced a dot cover called Return
to Invoice. If you
take Return to Invoice for your car, then the total
claim you get in that case will
replace all the posts of your option.
You will also get the registration charges,
you will also get the tax and let's say
that your  You will get the on road price of the vehicle
if you
set the add on cover return to this vehicle in your insurance then
you can take this cover in the first five years only if the age of your vehicle is 0 to
5 years then only you can take return to this cover
thanks for watching this video